All right.
So in this lesson, we'll talk about optional properties on object type definitions.
So let's say I have a variable, I'm going to call it character, and I'm not going to provide character
with its initial value assignment.
In other words, I'm not going to provide the equal sign yet and the actual object.
All I want to do is provide a type for a character.
So TypeScript knows what kind of object to expect, what shape it's going to have, what properties
and the types of those properties.
So as always, what I'm going to do is provide a colon and my square curly braces here to provide those
types, but I'm not going to provide the actual value yet.
And to keep this easy to read, I'm going to break this up across several lines.
So let's say my eventual character object must have a name property and that's going to be a string.
And we can separate every property and its type using either a comma or another common convention you'll
see as a semicolon.
Same idea.
So my eventual character object will have a name property that's going to be a string.
It's going to have a skill property that's also going to be a string.
And here's what I want to show you in this lesson.
We can also provide optional properties.
So what is an optional property?
It is a property that is optional that is not required.
It is possible to have it, but we are not going to mandate that it exists.
Right.
So for example, let's say I want to have a likes mushrooms property, which I want to be a boolean.
However, I do not want to require that a character object has a likes mushrooms property.
I can I can only say that it is optional, but if the object provides it then it must still be a boolean.
So the way that I make an property optional is by adding a question mark at the end of the property
name.
So simply by putting a question mark right here before the colon, I am saying that my character object
does not need a likes mushrooms property in order to be a valid character.
It can have that and if it does have that, it must provide a boolean, but it is not a required property.
So down below, let me show you here.
I'm going to actually assign my character variable to an object.
So right here, you can see when I hover my mouse over the violation, it's going to say that type you
gave me, that type of an empty object is missing the following properties from type name.
String skill.
String and notice likes mushrooms shows up, but now its type is listed as either boolean or undefined.
That's what that vertical type means.
It means either boolean or undefined.
And the reason it can be undefined is because that is the default value for a property that does not
exist on a given object.
So let me show you that if I provide a name here, let's set that to a string of link.
And here I have to provide commas because this is regular object declaration syntax.
It's not type declaration syntax.
So let's break.
Let's say I provide a name of link and a skill of sword fighting.
Notice as soon as I provide those two required properties and they both have the appropriate type of
string right here.
Notice the error goes away.
So TypeScript is not going to complain about the likes mushrooms property being absent because it is
optional.
So can I.
Provided I absolutely can write here.
I can add likes mushrooms if I want to and I can give it a value like a true.
And still we have a valid object, but it is not required.
It is an optional property.
Keep in mind, if we do provide it, as I mentioned, we still have to provide the right type.
So for example, if I do likes mushrooms here, it still has to be either a true or false to satisfy
this boolean type.
I cannot provide anything else.
Like let's say I provide an array of one or two.
Right?
This is invalid.
Even though likes mushrooms is optional.
If it is present it must still be a boolean.
So if I hover my mouse you can see it's going to say your type of number array is not assignable to
the type you told me to expect, which is either boolean, which means true or false or undefined,
which is how JavaScript and TypeScript deal with non-existent values, which is exactly what an optional
property is.
It's a property that doesn't have to exist.
Right.
So I'm going to return it back to true once again.
That's going to pass.
And once again, if I remove it as well, it's going to pass as well.
So the key takeaway is if you're going to have some kind of property that is not required for an object
to be of a certain type is simply provide a question mark at the end of it.
You can apply this to as many properties as you want on an object or none at all.
It's up to you.
It depends on what your program needs, whether a property is required for an object to be itself,
or whether it is not required or in other words, optional.
All of that is possible.
Just add a question mark to the end of the property name right before the colon.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.